nature reveals itself to us in unique
ways
if we stop and look at the world through
a window of time
over the last decade i've observed
endangered species and habitats around
the world
using a photographic technique that
captures the passage of time
literally from day to night all within a
single image
it has allowed me to witness the
fleeting moments between wildlife
and the natural habitat as time changes
over the course
of a single day in the serengeti
during a five-week drought i discovered
a watering hole
and watched for 26 hours diverse and
competitive wildlife
calmly share our planet's most precious
resource
water on lake bergoria in kenya
i photographed the great migration of
flamingos this happens normally during
the peak of dry season
but climate change has created evening
thunderstorms
turning normally dry hills green and
creating fresh water streams
in which the flamingos joyously bathe
our planet is changing before our eyes
but to witness that change
is also to witness the remarkable
relationships between all of nature
to see the infinite beauty of it to
learn how much bigger than us it is
and why it is worth fighting for
in 2019 the greenland ice sheet was
experiencing its largest melt in
recorded history
200 billion tons of ice liquefied into
the ocean
when glacial ice melts caving icebergs
release sediments and particles into the
sea water
initiating our ocean's food chain
plankton feed on the sediment
krilly plankton and the humpback whales
feed on the krill
this photograph is the result of
witnessing with my camera
a 36 hour feast by humpback whales
we assume that the greatest threat of
glacial melt will be sea level rise
which will certainly have major impacts
on coastlines and populations around the
world
but within this image we discover that
perhaps the greatest threat from glacial
melt
might be our ocean's ability to feed
itself
without ice the ocean food chain may
break
creating this photograph opened my
consciousness
i hope through your willingness to look
and see
it may open yours